You were listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wichita Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, click the link in the show notes or go to FBCWN.org.
It was 1988.
Yeah, I'm old.
I was actually six years old and I'll never forget this Christmas, y'all.
Where there was this new toy out, it'd come from Japan, okay?
I didn't even know what it was.
I didn't even know I needed it, but when I saw it, wow.
My brother and I walk into the living room and there before us is the original Nintendo NES system.
We're talking Mike Tyson's punch out.
We're talking Tecmo Bowl, where you throw it.
You always want to get the Raiders on that, by the way.
We're talking Contra with the code.
I didn't know it at that time yet.
I was only six.
Figured that one out.
All the Mario brothers, except for number two, that one was weird.
But one and three, this was the toy, all.
I forgot my parents even existed for a little bit.
My brother and I are just playing Nintendo all day and just having a great time, except there came this moment.
We had to leave and go to grandma's house.
And I knew it was at grandma's house.
Now I love my grandma, believe me.
And she makes a mean ham, it's awesome, all right?
But we go there and we do the festivities.
And now my grandma, she does not give me the Nintendo system.
All right, I already got it.
But she gives me and my brother the same gift every single year as a kid.
It was a piece of paper, basically an IOU from the government.
What am I talking about?
The savings bond.
Yes, this is the present.
My grandma would give me the savings bond.
And I didn't know how to be thankful for it.
I'm like, what is this?
She's like, that's worth a lot of money in 15 years, right?
Like, oh, thank you.
Thank you for that gift.
Can I please go home and play my Nintendo now?
And so I just moved on.
The Nintendo was the perfect gift.
Now, as I've gotten older, that Nintendo's long gone.
I'm not even very, I'm not a gamer.
I'm not really good at games, but I still remember that Christmas.
But all through the years, we get to this moment of our year 2025, and it's the time that we do go shopping.
We do try to find gifts and find the perfect gift.
And I was with my father-in-law this week, and I asked him, you know, I don't know if y'all have anyone that's hard to shop for.
Father-in-law is one of those.
I mean, he's got everything.
just a garage of so many things.
And it's amazing, but I'm always like, what do you want for Christmas?
Help me out here.
I don't know what you want.
And my father-in-law, he says the same thing every single year.
In fact, I've heard my own parents, they say this every year.
It's the same thing.
He says, just bring your family.
The best gift is having everyone together.
And I'm like, that's wonderful sentiment.
But really, can you send me your Amazon list really soon?
I don't know what you want.
But no, as I'm getting older, I'm realizing that, right?
Like, it's not the stuff that brings us real joy.
It's not the stuff.
Now stuff's great.
But the older I get, the more I realize that there's something to being together, that the reality of our lives is that the joy is always in the relationships.
The older and older I get, I'm realizing that moments are passing by my own daughter.
She's like a senior in high school right now, y'all.
And I'm doing that thing.
She keeps her mind on me.
And she's like, I'm not dying, but I'm like, this is our last year for this.
You know, I'm like that parent.
This is the last Chris.
This is the last Thanksgiving.
She's like, I'm not going anywhere, but I'm, I'm getting sentimental, y'all.
Because I'm realizing things do change and maybe for you in your life, things are changing.
And the older we get, we realize, man, the joy is in the relationships.
In fact, can I just make this statement before we get into John chapter one?
The reality is this, that the quality of your life is directly connected to the quality of the relationships in your life.
And so today, I wanna talk about the perfect gift.
And I'm gonna give you the whole main idea of the message right here at the front, and that's this.
The perfect gift is,
Yeah, I knew y'all be bad.
It's like, Jesus, it's the right answer when we're in church.
That is correct, but I want to get more specific.
It's not just Jesus, it is.
Hang with me.
It's the fact that Jesus, God is not a distant God.
God is a God who is with.
us, the gift of with, that God did not save us from a distance.
He's not checked out that he is the God who literally comes and joins us where we are and rescues and saves us.
And I want to talk about the gift of with.
And with that, I want to kick off this Advent season with a challenge for you and I, both to receive the gift of with and to give it.
So to do that, I want to look in John chapter one and I want to start
In verse nine, here's what it says.
The true light which gives light to everyone was coming into the world.
He was in the world and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him and didn't recognize him.
Verse 11, he came to his own, his own people did not receive him, but to all who did receive him.
who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of a flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
And here it is, the verse we all know, the word became flesh.
And it dwelt among us, literally, it's Tabernacle, he moved in, he dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only son
from the Father, full of grace and truth.
Talking about receiving a gift and what the Bible tells us is the gift that we get is the gift of light.
Implied in the true light coming into the world, what's implied there is that the world is full of darkness.
That's the implication, right?
That we live in a world of darkness.
In fact, in Isaiah 9 verse 2, it says, the people walked in darkness, but they've seen a great light.
Those who dwelled in the land of deep darkness on them a light has shown.
So there's implication that you and I are in darkness in need of light.
That's why God sent that into the world.
When the Bible talks about darkness, it speaks of it in two distinct ways.
For us to understand really this gift, what we've been given, I do need to go over the biblical narrative quickly.
Because the first way that the Bible speaks about darkness is connected to evil.
That this world is evil.
And by evil, what I mean is it is contrary to the way God designed it.
That's what we mean.
In Genesis 1, the Bible tells you and I that we're not just by chance created, that he had a design, he created us, and above all creation, I teach this to the students all the time, you were created in his image, which is vastly superior to everything else in creation.
Nowhere else in creation is it said that something is made in his image, stars are not made in his image, angels are not made in his image, we are made in his image.
And according to Genesis 1, you and I, we were created to be in relationship with God, to know Him, to enjoy Him.
But even in that, that wasn't enough.
Because quickly we get to the first crisis of Scripture.
Again, something I teach the students, they could tell you what it is.
It wasn't actually sin, the first crisis.
The first crisis of Scripture was that man is alone.
And God said, this is not good.
And even though Adam had perfect relationship with God, sin had not entered the world.
God says it is not good that man is alone.
And this is key because you and I need to understand how we were created in his image that we weren't just created to know God, just to walk with God, to be with God.
You and I were created for one another.
God by his very nature is communal, the Trinitarian God.
And in that nature, he created you and I with a need for community.
It is not about just you and God.
You were created to be with God's people as well.
And so the light comes into the world because there's darkness.
What happened was even though we were created this way, sin entered the world and the world now is not as God designed it.
The world's been broken and shattered because of sin.
And the Bible says that you and I have been separated from God from our sin.
When Adam and Eve said we would rather be God, than know God.
What does the Bible say?
So they took of the fruit, they rebelled, and they knew good, and what?
Evil.
What's crazy about that moment is they already knew good.
All the enemy gave them, all the deceiver told them is you can know good and evil.
What he was really telling them is now you get to know evil.
To live a life separated from God, contrary to God.
So sin entered the world.
You and I enter into darkness away from God's presence.
The Bible says we've been separated from God because of the sin in our lives.
Not only that, Genesis 3 is going to go on to tell us not just that our relationship with God is separated, but our relationship with one another is broken as well.
Many of us who've had some great, lively conversations with people at Thanksgiving realize it is hard to get along with some people, right?
Like you know, like sin has done something, it's more difficult for me to get along with everyone, for me to have peace with the people around me.
But then Genesis 3 goes on to say, not just that you have a broken relationship with God through sin, not just that you have a broken relationship with others through sin, but we even have a broken relationship with creation itself.
And so the world as God created and intended has been broken by sin, we live in darkness, we need light, not just darkness that we live in
evil that is contrary to God, that is true, by the way, of all of us.
We're not all inherently good according to the Bible.
God made us good and claimed us as good, but sin entered the world and we became broken.
And so the Bible goes on to explain to us that we need restoration.
We need to be saved.
And so this light has come into the world to help us
It's not just darkness from evil, it's also darkness in terms of ignorance.
That is, when the Bible speaks of darkness, a lot of times it's speaking about, I don't know the way, literally blindness.
But we don't know how to cure the evil, the pain, the suffering in this world.
We don't know how to create world peace.
And so God knows that as well, that the cure for this world is not in this world, therefore it says very key,
the true light which gives light to everyone came into the world.
You see that?
That the solution is not in us.
We don't figure this thing out.
It has to come from outside of us.
In fact, as I was studying this week, it's interesting the context of Isaiah 9.
I already quoted Isaiah 9 which says that the people who were in darkness have seen a great light, a great light has shown on them.
But Isaiah eight, if you look at the context, it's pretty interesting.
Here's what's going on in chapter eight.
In verses 19 and 20 of Isaiah eight, it says that the people were consulting with mediums and magicians and even asked, why would you not ask of God?
And then it ends the chapter saying this, that they were distressed and hungry, that they would roam the land, they were looking towards the earth, and they would see only distressed darkness, fear and gloom.
The Christmas season tells us that the cure for our problem is not found within us.
We don't look to the experts or the mystics or the scholars.
We need something from outside of us.
So Jesus enters the scene.
This is what's so incredible about what we believe as believers, as Christians.
Every other religion's about attaining heaven, get to heaven, find a way to be good with God with the only faith
where God comes to us, joins creation, steps into it to rescue us.
And so this light enters the world, the world that it created, the uncreated one, entering creation, the infinite king becoming vulnerable so that he might die and take our place, the eternal entering into a moment to be with.
This is the gift, but the world didn't even know it.
It says that they didn't even recognize it.
They didn't see it.
His own people did not receive him.
They rejected him.
Why?
Because that was too ordinary.
The way that Jesus enters the scene, I know we're all familiar with the manger and the nativity and all this.
But if you think about it, this is not what they were expecting.
Yes, God would send a savior.
Yes, he would save us, rescue us, but not like this.
And so because it was so ordinary, they missed it.
Also because it took a while, Advent means to wait for the arrival, right?
It took a while, 600 years since Isaiah.
They were just in their lives, doing their thing, not expecting for God to enter the scene and literally be with them.
In church family, I feel like for a lot of us, the reason that we miss out on God sometimes in this season is it's so busy, so chaotic, so crazy that we don't even expect God to enter into the ordinary moments of our lives.
Yes, he's here on a Sunday morning.
He's at church with us.
We're singing God's speaking, but is he gonna be with me Monday morning?
We're getting the kids ready for school.
He's gonna be with me as we're,
Making dinner on a Tuesday night, is he in the ordinary?
Yes, because he is God with us in all the ordinary moments, but maybe we're too distracted.
But it goes on and it tells us the beauty of the gift, the gospel verse 12, it says this, but for all who did receive him.
For all who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God.
There it is.
Here's the gift.
If you would believe in him, if you would receive him, if you would take him out his word and say, yes, I believe you're the Savior.
I believe you're the light.
I confess that there's darkness in my life.
I confess that I can't find my way to God, be good enough, go to church enough, no enough things.
I need a Savior.
And for anyone that would receive him and believe in him,
He would give you a gift.
The gift actually of his very own life.
He was born as the Lamb of God who would die, literally shed his blood so that you could be saved.
But when it says that, it says he gives you the gift.
I was thinking like the gift of like heaven.
I thought that's what he would say.
For those who receive and they get the gift of heaven, they get the gift of eternity.
They don't have to go to hell.
That sounds great.
It's not what it says.
It says, He gives them the right to become children of God.
I feel like this is like a savings bond gift.
Now hang with me.
Because I see that I'm like, okay, cool.
And everyone, a child of God, we're all in.
We all get a trophy.
Great, I'm a child of God.
That's the gift.
Awesome.
You know, the savings bond that my grandmother gave me, it didn't mean a lot to me when I was seven years old.
But when I turned 18 and all those savings bonds came to maturity, that was a massive amount of money.
I was about to buy a new car.
They're like, no, no, you got to go to college.
I'm like, I'm rich.
I didn't recognize the value of what I really had when the
The Bible gives you this promise that you can be a child of God.
You've got to understand what this really means.
So let me first be really clear.
Everyone is not a child of God.
Contrary to popular belief, the Bible doesn't classify everyone as a child of God.
Is everyone created by God?
Yes.
We're all created by God.
And all of us begin our relationship to the Almighty God as the holy and just judge.
that we will stand before one day and give an account.
He is not everyone's father.
In fact, it says this in 1 John 3, 10.
Hear this, he says this.
This, by this, it's evident who are the children of God and those that are the children of the devil.
Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother.
First John is making a distinction about the characteristics of those who are God's children.
Not that we love people so we can be God's children, but the evidence that we are God's child is that we have a genuine unnatural love for people.
Because, to be honest, naturally, we're selfish.
It's all about me.
But when we received a gift like this, it changes us.
And the mark of God's people is that we are a people who are giving and loving because God so loved us that we return and give our love to those around us.
Not everyone is a child of God.
But those who would believe in him and receive him, he would give them the right.
Now, I'm a student pastor.
here at the church, you didn't know that.
By the way, my wife was like, I'm married to the pastor.
Let me clarify something.
The student pastor was the keyword there.
So yeah, just want to clarify.
But I love you.
You did so good today.
Wonderful job.
My wife and I, we've been married now.
We're about to complete our 22nd year of marriage.
Wow, I feel old.
Yeah, please clap for that and send gifts.
And we have three daughters.
Now, I mentioned one of them who's a senior in high school.
We also have an eighth grader and we have a fourth grade.
Okay, fourth grade.
Yeah, I got you.
I got you.
She's right here.
She's gonna keep me to it.
Now, listen, there's a lot of teenagers in my life.
In our student ministry, there's upwards of 600 kids over there on a Wednesday night.
I got all these college students.
I love you guys.
Good to see you all there with me on Tuesday nights.
And they're great.
I love the teenagers.
They'll call to this, excited to be with them.
I'll even invite them over to my house.
You guys can come hang out, but you're leaving at nine.
Get out of my house, right?
I mean, it's fine, you can come over, you can eat some food, don't eat that food, that's mine.
I'll hang out with you, but there are only three people in this world that are my kids, and it's different.
My daughters always have a seat at my dinner table.
Always.
Ellie, when you graduate, you just come back every weekend.
It'll be great.
Always.
My daughters all have their own bedroom.
They live with us.
They have their own space in my home.
My daughters know me.
Man, they seen me in a robe and slippers this morning.
They know me different.
than these teenagers.
They've seen my ups, they've seen my downs.
They know me.
They have access to me.
They could come to me at any moment.
Now, when they were little, they like to interrupt bathroom time and I'd be like, this is daddy time, you know, like, go away.
But they know they can come to me at any moment.
This is the gift.
The gift is not my stuff, although it is.
Everything I have is theirs, believe me.
They will take it all, right?
It's all theirs.
But the gift is so much more valuable.
The gift is us.
The gift is our relationship.
The gift is love.
It's all about the relationship.
And you know this too.
That we can pursue success.
We can pursue all these other things in life.
But at the end of the day, it's all about the relationship.
This is what the prodigal son's story was that Jesus told quickly.
We think that the prodigal son's story is about two sons, the younger son who didn't want anything to do with his dad, so he sold the inheritance.
He wanted to go live out from under his dad's rules and his roof.
He wanted to be on his own, do his own thing until he quickly came to his senses, as it says, ran out of money, was broke, destitute, and realized I had it so much better in the presence of my father.
So he comes home right, he'll even be a slave.
He just wants to be with his dad, even if it's as a slave and his dad robs him and throws him the party.
You remember this.
And then the older brothers like, wait a second, he did all that and you're accepting him back into this family.
And you remember the fathers like pleading with him, come to the party.
Let's celebrate your brother and he wouldn't go.
You see the prodigal son's story is not about the boys.
It's about a father.
who just wanted to be with his kids.
The gift that you have and I have this Christmas season is a God who invites you in the relationship with him, not religion, not check the box, do your divo on a Monday morning so that we're cool.
Don't you see?
The gift is just to be with him, let him speak into your life, let him lead you, let him encourage you, walk with him, know him.
This is the gift he invites us into.
Advent is a season that calls us first and foremost to just receive his presence.
The word became flesh and dwelt with us.
The gift is him, but let me say this.
It's also the gift of others because a family is not just you and the parent.
or as a parent, it's not just you and your kid.
For many of you that just experienced Thanksgiving again, you recognize it wasn't just a house with me and my parent or me and the kids.
There are aunts, uncles, cousins, in-laws, grandchildren, children, all of them are the family and don't miss this.
Because not only is this Advent season about receiving the gift of with, it's a call for us as the family of God adopted into this to be with one another.
You have been called to give the gift of with, to enter in and engage with the people around you and kind of speak to the men for just a minute.
Sunday mornings, first Baptist is not just a building and a church, it's a family.
It's actually an eternal family.
And no matter what our situations are in life, this family says that whatever you're going through, you don't go through alone.
And it's a call for us to be engaged, to enter in, to be a part of this and not just a spectator.
So many men, I'm gonna tell you, I'm not here to disciple your kid as the student pastor.
I'm here to partner with you, but I only get an hour within.
Some of our kids don't have fathers.
Would you disciple them?
Would you pour into these kids coming up in our church?
Because they're part of our family.
The call is for us all in whatever capacity we can to give the gift of with as well, to engage.
When Ellie was two years old, we would go on donut dates.
We started this thing.
I was like, man, I'm gonna be a good dad.
I'm gonna be in her life.
worked all week, but on Fridays, I'm taking off, we're going to get donuts.
And we'd get donuts, and then we'd go to the park.
We'd go play at the park, right?
It was our thing.
And as I had more kids, we kept this tradition alive.
Every Friday, it was a donut day with Dad.
I have all these photos, in my Google photos, of them growing through the years at a shipless donut.
It was awesome.
But there would be times where we couldn't go to the park because it was raining.
And so I had to make something up.
play hide and go seek or do some of that.
And I'll never forget this.
Ellie was seven years old.
And one day we go get donuts and it's raining.
And so we have to come to the house.
And I'm like, okay, well, we can't go to the park.
What if we drew photos or a picture of us going to the park?
That would be fun.
And so I was like, great.
Yeah, I'll do that.
I like to draw.
And so we're both drawing our photos, y'all.
And then I see her finished photo.
Let me show you.
I don't know if you can make this out, but my seven-year-old draws a photo of her going down a slide, having the time of her life going, Wee, this is awesome!
And then she draws me at the bottom of the slide, catching her involved, no.
Y'all, that's a photo of me on a park bench looking at my phone.
Hashtag dad fail.
Man, that one hurt, y'all.
I'm like, yeah, dad has to answer a few texts.
Maybe it's answered an email while we're on our daddy daughter date.
But man, I was like present for 3.3 hours and 50 minutes of the four hour time, right?
You just saw me in my phone.
It doesn't matter.
That was her picture.
There is a difference church family with being around
and being with.
There is a difference between having proximity to people around you and engaging and being loving and sharing and being involved.
You've been listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wichita Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, including gathering times and locations, click the link in the show notes or go to FBCWF.org.
We'll see you next week.